Integrate kasten into openshift monitoring (#4)
kastendevhub/kastendevhub.github.io: _posts/2024-01-12-kasten-openshift-monitoring.markdown

---
layout: post
title: Using Openshift Monitoring for Kasten
description: Openshift comes with an advanced monitoring stack which is fully compatible with Kasten, in this blog post I will sho how to use it.
date: 2024-01-12 10:17:00 +0000
author: michaelcourcy
image: '/images/posts/2024-01-12-kasten-openshift-monitoring/monitoring.jpg'
image_caption: 'Using Openshift monitoring for Kasten'
tags: [Tutorial, Monitoring, Backup, Prometheus, Thanos]
featured:
---
# Using openshift monitoring for Kasten

> [Openshift monitoring](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html) allow you to monitor user metrics, and allow external services like Zabbix or Dynatrace to access those metrics in a secure way. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[OpenShift monitoring](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html) allows you to monitor user metrics, and allow external services like Zabbix or Dynatrace to access those metrics in a secure way. 
```

> Most of the time, before you start to add Kasten to openshift there is already an ITSM stack in the company which is working with openshift monitoring. All you want to do is include Kasten in Openshift Monitoring to leverage this ITSM stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, before you deploy Kasten to OpenShift, there is already an ITSM stack configured to use OpenShift monitoring. Rather than onboarding Kasten into the ITSM directly, you can include Kasten events within Openshift Monitoring to leverage this already-established integration. This can save you time and effort and be repeated across clusters, to help standardize and simplify monitoring and reporting.
```

Reviewer 2: Recommend rewriting:
Before deploying Kasten on OpenShift, it is typical than an existing Information Technology Service Management (ITSM) stack has been configured to use OpenShift monitoring.
...
By repeating this across other OpenShift clusters, monitoring is standardized, reporting is simplified, and effort is saved.

Hence we often have two requests from our customers : 

> - how do I expose Kasten metrics from an external service like Zabbix or Dynatrace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How do I expose Kasten metrics from an external service like Zabbix or Dynatrace?
```

> - how do I add kasten metrics in the global openshift monitoring. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- How do I add Kasten metrics in the global OpenShift monitoring?
```

In this tutorial I'm going to show : 
- How to expose user defined metrics to openshift-monitoring 

> - Query this metrics from an external service using curl 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Query this metrics from an external service using `curl`
```

- Apply the previous to Kasten metrics 

# Enable user metrics 

> First you need to [enable moniroring for user defined project](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you need to [enable monitoring for user-defined projects](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html).
```

```
oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
```

Make sure the line `enableUserWorkload: true` is there.
```
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    enableUserWorkload: true
```

if it works then you should see new pods popping up in the openshift-user-workload-monitoring namespace.
```
oc get po -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring
NAME                                   READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
prometheus-operator-5bb8ff99b4-wkpxr   2/2     Running   0          7h23m
prometheus-user-workload-0             6/6     Running   0          7h23m
prometheus-user-workload-1             6/6     Running   0          7h23m
thanos-ruler-user-workload-0           3/3     Running   0          7h23m
thanos-ruler-user-workload-1           3/3     Running   0          7h23m
```

# Accessing the metrics from outside the cluster 

> This part of the [Openshift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html#accessing-metrics-from-outside-cluster_enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects) show how to access metrics from outside the cluster using curl.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This part of the [OpenShift documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.html#accessing-metrics-from-outside-cluster_enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects) shows how to access metrics from outside the cluster using curl.
```

```
SECRET=`oc get secret -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring | grep  prometheus-user-workload-token | head -n 1 | awk '{print $1 }'`
TOKEN=`echo $(oc get secret $SECRET -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.data.token') | base64 -d`
THANOS_QUERIER_HOST=`oc get route thanos-querier -n openshift-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.spec.host'`
NAMESPACE=openshift-dns

> curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=up{namespace='$NAMESPACE'}" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" |jq

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=up{namespace='$NAMESPACE'}" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" | jq
```

```

You should get an output like this one 
```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "__name__": "up",
          "container": "kube-rbac-proxy",
          "endpoint": "metrics",
          "instance": "10.128.0.38:9154",
          "job": "dns-default",
          "namespace": "openshift-dns",
          "pod": "dns-default-j6n8h",
          "prometheus": "openshift-monitoring/k8s",
          "service": "dns-default"
        },
        "value": [
          1705578106.559,
          "1"
        ]
      },
      {
        "metric": {
          "__name__": "up",
          "container": "kube-rbac-proxy",
          "endpoint": "metrics",
          "instance": "10.128.2.5:9154",
          "job": "dns-default",
          "namespace": "openshift-dns",
          "pod": "dns-default-mf6gk",
          "prometheus": "openshift-monitoring/k8s",
          "service": "dns-default"
        },
        "value": [
          1705578106.559,
          "1"
        ]
      },
  ...
```

> This metrics list all the instances that are scraped in the opesnhift-dns namespace and their ability to respond to the scrape request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This metrics list all the instances that are scraped in the `openshift-dns` namespace and their ability to respond to the scrape request. 
```

# Let's create a user defined metrics 

> First we create a workload that expose metrics 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not a bad start, but let's see what we can _do_ with these metrics. First we create a workload that exposes the metrics: 
```

```
cat <<EOF |oc create -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: ns1
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  labels:
    app: prometheus-example-app
  name: prometheus-example-app
  namespace: ns1
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: prometheus-example-app
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: ghcr.io/rhobs/prometheus-example-app:0.4.1
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
        name: prometheus-example-app
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  labels:
    app: prometheus-example-app
  name: prometheus-example-app
  namespace: ns1
spec:
  ports:
  - port: 8080
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 8080
    name: web
  selector:
    app: prometheus-example-app
  type: ClusterIP
EOF 
```

> To check this pod create metrics we create a curl pod and grab the metrics using the service created previously:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check this pod created metrics, we create a `curl` pod and grab the metrics using the service created in the previous deployment:  
```

```
oc run curl --image=curlimages/curl --command --  tail -f /dev/null 
oc rsh curl
curl http://prometheus-example-app:8080/metrics
```

> you should get this answer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see this result:
```

```
# HELP version Version information about this binary
# TYPE version gauge
version{version="v0.4.1"} 1
```

> This metrics is of little interest but is simple to handle and understand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this particular metric is of little interest, it is a good example and hopefully easy to understand.
```

# Add this metrics in Openshift Monitoring 

## What is a ServiceMonitor

> A ServiceMonitor is a custom resource that participate to the configuration of Prometheus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A ServiceMonitor is a custom resource that feeds into the configuration of Prometheus.
```

Reviewer 2: that composes part of a Prometheus configuration.
? is that a better way to phrase this?

Author: Yes I find `feeds into`slightly ambiguous but better than `participate to`

Author: I will opt for @mlavi suggestion

> It is used to define an application you wish to scrape metrics from within Kubernetes, the controller will use the information in the ServiceMonitor object to automatically build the required Prometheus configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is used to define an application you wish to scrape metrics from within Kubernetes. The controller will use the information in the ServiceMonitor object to automatically build the required Prometheus configuration.
```

## The authorization to create a ServiceMonitor

You'll have to create a cluster role and a binding to allow your user to create the service monitor in their namespace.

> First create the servicemonitor-editor cluster role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First create the servicemonitor-editor cluster role:
```

```
cat<<EOF | oc create -f 
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: servicemonitor-editor
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - monitoring.coreos.com
  resources:
  - servicemonitors
  verbs:
  - '*'
EOF
```

Now you can bind this cluster role to a user in a namespace, in our case we want to create the servicemonitor in `ns1`.
```
oc create rolebinding servicemonitor-editor-user1 \
  --clusterrole=servicemonitor-editor \
  --user=user1 \
  --namespace=ns1
```

This binding will allow user1 to create service monitor in the namespace ns1. 

## Let's create a Service Monitor for the application we've just deployed

Create a monitor to integrate this metric to openshift-monitoring
```
cat<<EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    k8s-app: prometheus-example-monitor
  name: prometheus-example-monitor
  namespace: ns1
spec:
  endpoints:
  - interval: 30s
    port: web
    scheme: http
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: prometheus-example-app
EOF
```

> in openshift dashboard go to observe>targets and search for ns1 you shoud see this new target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the OpenShift dashboard, navigate to **Observe > Targets** and search for `ns1` you shoud see this new target.
```

![find the target defined in service monitor](/images/posts/2024-01-12-kasten-openshift-monitoring/list-target.png)

> # access this metrics from the outside 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Access These Metrics from the Outside 
```

As we did before we can now query the metrics generated by this new target from the Thanos host : 

```
SECRET=`oc get secret -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring | grep  prometheus-user-workload-token | head -n 1 | awk '{print $1 }'`
TOKEN=`echo $(oc get secret $SECRET -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.data.token') | base64 -d`
THANOS_QUERIER_HOST=`oc get route thanos-querier -n openshift-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.spec.host'`

> curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=version" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" |jq

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=version" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" | jq
```

```

you should have this complete response
```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "__name__": "version",
          "endpoint": "web",
          "instance": "10.130.2.35:8080",
          "job": "prometheus-example-app",
          "namespace": "ns1",
          "pod": "prometheus-example-app-6884c645b9-gl2mm",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "prometheus-example-app",
          "version": "v0.4.1"
        },
        "value": [
          1704813472.324,
          "1"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
``` 

> # Apply to kasten 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Apply to Kasten 
```

## Allow openshift monitoring to scrape kasten-io namespace

> First we need to allow request coming from the openshift-user-workload-monitoring namespace, for that we need to add a network policy in the kasten-io namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we need to allow request coming from the openshift-user-workload-monitoring namespace, for that we need to add a network policy in the `kasten-io` namespace.
```

```
cat<<EOF |oc create -f -
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: NetworkPolicy
metadata:
  labels:
    app: k10    
  name: allow-openshift-monitoring
  namespace: kasten-io  
spec:
  ingress:
  - from:
    - namespaceSelector:
        matchLabels:
          name: openshift-user-workload-monitoring    
  - ports:
    - port: http
      protocol: TCP
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      release: k10      
  policyTypes:
  - Ingress
EOF
```

Check you can request the metrics endpoint in kasten from the `openshift-user-workload-monitoring` namespace by shelling in one of his prometheus pod.

```
oc rsh -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring prometheus-user-workload-0
curl http://catalog-svc.kasten-io.svc.cluster.local:8000/metrics
```

> If you get an answer it means that you allow communication to kasten-io from openshift-user-workload-monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you get a response, it means that you've successfully allowed communication to kasten-io from the openshift-user-workload-monitoring.
```

## Create a Service Monitor 

> Now let's create a service monitor for the catalog 

Reviewer: Can you add a bit of context here? Why would we want to monitor the Kasten catalog?

Author: good point

```
cat<<EOF | oc create -f -
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    k8s-app: kasten-io
  name: catalog
  namespace: kasten-io
spec:
  endpoints:
  - interval: 30s
    port: http
    scheme: http
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      component: catalog
EOF
```

After some time you should be able to query the catalog_actions_count metrics from the openshift monitoring service 

```
SECRET=`oc get secret -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring | grep  prometheus-user-workload-token | head -n 1 | awk '{print $1 }'`
TOKEN=`echo $(oc get secret $SECRET -n openshift-user-workload-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.data.token') | base64 -d`
THANOS_QUERIER_HOST=`oc get route thanos-querier -n openshift-monitoring -o json | jq -r '.spec.host'`
curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=catalog_actions_count" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" |jq
```

> You should get an answer like this one (Unless you did not create any kasten action): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should get an answer like this one (Unless you did not trigger any Kasten actions): 

{: .alert-info }
If you don't see a response similar to the one below, it's likely because you have not triggered any actions (e.g. Backup, export, restore, etc) within Kasten. If you do so, then re-run the above commands, you should hopefully see a similar response.
```

          "container": "catalog-svc",
          "endpoint": "http",
          "exported_namespace": "bnewell-pacman",
          "instance": "10.131.1.77:8000",
          "job": "catalog-svc",
          "liveness": "live",
          "namespace": "kasten-io",
          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "bnewell-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "complete",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "value": [
          1705579479.262,
          "3"
        ]
      },
      {
        "metric": {
          "__name__": "catalog_actions_count",
          "container": "catalog-svc",
          "endpoint": "http",
          "exported_namespace": "bnewell-pacman",
          "instance": "10.131.1.77:8000",
          "job": "catalog-svc",
          "liveness": "live",
          "namespace": "kasten-io",
          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "bnewell-pacman-backup",

          ..... Continue ....
```

The important part of the curl request is : 
```
"query=catalog_actions_count"
```

> `catalog_action_count` is a metric exposed by the catalog, it give the status of the kasten actions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`catalog_action_count` is a metric exposed by the catalog, it give the status of the Kasten actions. 
```

# Detecting a failed action

> In order to test a failed action I'm going to fail a backup in one of the application 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to test a failed action I'm going to fail a backup in one of the applications
```

by creating a failed workload in the `mcourcy-pacman` namespace. Kasten will wait for the deployment to be ready and after a while it will fail the backup.

> `mcourcy-pacman` is a namespace which is protected by a policy. When I'll run this policy because of the failed workload the backup action will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mcourcy-pacman` is a namespace which is protected by a [Kasten backup policy](https://docs.kasten.io/latest/api/policies.html). When I run this policy, the backup action will fail because of the failed workload.
```

```

you should get a similar output : 

```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "__name__": "catalog_actions_count",
          "container": "catalog-svc",
          "endpoint": "http",
          "exported_namespace": "mcourcy-pacman",
          "instance": "10.131.1.77:8000",
          "job": "catalog-svc",
          "liveness": "live",
          "namespace": "kasten-io",
          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "mcourcy-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "failed",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "value": [
          1705076841.476,
          "2"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

check the timestamp `1705076841.476,` and convert it in a human readable format.

```
date -d @1705076841.476
Fri Jan 12 17:27:21 CET 2024
```

If you are on mac 
```
brew install coreutils
gdate -d @1705076841.476
Fri Jan 12 17:27:21 CET 2024
```

> The date and time should be the date and time of the failed backup. The number `2` is because we have a failed backup action and also a failed runaction because we trigger the backup action from a policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The date and time should be the date and time of the failed backup. The number `2` in the earlier response is because we have a failed backup action and also a failed runaction because we trigger the backup action from a policy.
```

> The date and time should be the date and time of the failed backup. The number `2` is because we have a failed backup action and also a failed runaction because we trigger the backup action from a policy.

Reviewer: Do we have a reference to the different number values we would see? (I assume we (Kasten) are returning the value of 2 in the metric, or is that a prometheus thing?)

Author: the value 2 is because we have 2 failed backup action for this namespace, later we will have 4

          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "mcourcy-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "failed",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "values": [
          [
            1705335629.842,
            "2"
          ],
          [
            1705335636.32,
            "2"
          ],
          [
            1705335659.842,
            "2"
          ],
          [
            1705335689.842,
            "3"
          ],
          [
            1705335719.842,
            "3"
          ],
          [
            1705335749.842,
            "4"
          ],
          [
            1705335779.842,
            "4"
          ],
          ....
```

What we get here is a [range vector rather than an instant vector](https://satyanash.net/software/2021/01/04/understanding-prometheus-range-vectors.html). Which means exactly the same result before but evaluated at different times within the 10 last minutes. 

The interesting thing that you may notice is the value change at the end of the range vector, we moved from 2 to 3 then 4. 

> 20 minutes after the failed backup if you reevaluate this expression you will get only `4` for all the timestamps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
20 minutes after the failed backup if you reevaluate this expression you will get only `4` for all the response metric values.
```

          "policy": "mcourcy-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "failed",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "value": [
          1705356529.062,
          "1.0526315789473684"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}   
```

The result will be zero if you've passed the 10 minutes after the failure 

```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "container": "catalog-svc",
          "endpoint": "http",
          "exported_namespace": "mcourcy-pacman",
          "instance": "10.131.1.77:8000",
          "job": "catalog-svc",
          "liveness": "live",
          "namespace": "kasten-io",
          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "mcourcy-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "failed",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "value": [
          1705357729.062,
          "0"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> The non integer value `1.0526315789473684` is because even if we see a change from 2 to 4 on a time range this is seen as a gradual change on the 10 minutes. If instead of `[10]` you choose `[5m]` the value would be higher because the change is seen as quicker hence more brutal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The non integer value `1.0526315789473684` is because even if we see a change from 2 to 4 on a time range this is seen as a gradual change on the 10 minutes. If instead of `[10m]` you choose `[5m]` in the query, the value would be higher because the change is seen as quicker hence more abrupt.
```

    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "container": "catalog-svc",
          "endpoint": "http",
          "exported_namespace": "mcourcy-pacman",
          "instance": "10.131.1.77:8000",
          "job": "catalog-svc",
          "liveness": "live",
          "namespace": "kasten-io",
          "pod": "catalog-svc-56b97b4bfb-7vrzc",
          "policy": "mcourcy-pacman-backup",
          "prometheus": "openshift-user-workload-monitoring/user-workload",
          "service": "catalog-svc",
          "status": "failed",
          "type": "backup"
        },
        "value": [
          1705356529.062,
          "1.0526315789473684"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}   
```

In other words the exact result we get before, otherwise it just return an empty set

```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": []
  }
}
```

Getting an empty resultset means that the number of failed action did not increase in the last 10 minutes.

## Garbage collection of the metrics 

Even long after the backup failure if you execute the request 
```
"query=increase(catalog_actions_count{policy='mcourcy-pacman-backup',status='failed'}[10m])"
```

> You'll notice the date are still recent and within the last 10 minutes despite the failure is now over. The catalog continue to publish the metrics or the actions, and prometheus continue to scrape them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll notice the dates are still recent and within the last 10 minutes, despite the failure having occurred in the past. The catalog will continue to publish the metrics or the actions, and prometheus continue to scrape them. 
```

> This is because backup actions has not been removed and will be removed after the restorepoint will be removed.

Reviewer: Are we saying the backup action will be removed only after the restorepoint is removed? Do we recommend users remove the restorepoint after a failed backup?

Author: good point I forgot this aspect, when we remove a restorepoint we remove the backup action it created, but when the backup action failed then there is no restorepoint ... Hence the failed backup action will remain until the global garbage collector will collect it. Thanks.

> # Capturing other interesting failure 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Capturing Other Interesting Failures
```

> You can use the Kasten grafana dashboard to obtain other interesting alert 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's worth noting that Kasten deploys an instance of Grafana when it is deployed. You can use the Kasten Grafana dashboard to obtain other interesting alerts
```

Reviewer 2: "when it is deployed." is redundant!

Author: I like the suggestion but I agree it's redundant, I will find something

## Not using more than 50 % of catalog pvc 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, perhaps you want to generate an alert if your cluster's storage is over 50% utilized:
```

```
100-catalog_persistent_volume_free_space_percent>50
```

If the result is empty you are under 50%.

## Evaluating the quantity of memory and CPU used by kasten-io 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another useful monitor may be monitoring the amount of compute consumed by resources in the kasten-io namespace.  This can help us size our cluster appropriately and monitor resource utilization over time as we increase or decrease the number of applications, replicas, etc being backed up by Kasten.
```

Reviewer 2: A useful monitoring suggestion is the `kasten-io` namespace CPU resource consumption. This amount contributes to cluster size estimation and... being protected by Kasten.

```
sum(container_memory_working_set_bytes{namespace='kasten-io',container="",pod!=""}) BY (namespace)
```

or 
```
curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=sum(container_memory_working_set_bytes{namespace='kasten-io',container='',pod!=''}) BY (namespace)" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" |jq
```

the result here 
```
{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": [
      {
        "metric": {
          "namespace": "kasten-io"
        },
        "value": [
          1705359310.344,
          "2776227840"
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> Show that kasten consumme 2.8Gb of memory.

Reviewer: Is there any easy way to format the value (2776227840) into a human readable format? No worries if not, but might be worth including

Author: I don't think so with prometheus, it's why I provided the `date -d ` command

> In order to detect an unecpected issue on memory usage and want to detect that Kasten memory usage passed the 3Gb, you can check that this request return an empty result. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to detect an unexpected issue on memory usage, you can configure a metric to detect whether Kasten memory usage surpasses 3Gb. If it has not, this request will return an empty result. 
```

```
sum(container_memory_working_set_bytes{namespace='kasten-io',container="",pod!=""}) BY (namespace) > 3221225472

{
  "status": "success",
  "data": {
    "resultType": "vector",
    "result": []
  }
}
```

> If not then you are passing the treshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise, you know that Kasten is exceeding the 3Gb threshold.
```

> The same apply for cpu :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same can apply for Kasten's cpu usage as well:
```

```
namespace:container_cpu_usage:sum{namespace='kasten-io'}
```

> Or with thanos 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And here is the same query, this time using Thanos:
```

```
curl -X GET -kG "https://$THANOS_QUERIER_HOST/api/v1/query?" --data-urlencode "query=namespace:container_cpu_usage:sum{namespace='kasten-io'}" -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" |jq
```

# Conclusion 

> Thanks to Service Monitor it's easy to integrate kasten metrics into openshift monitoring and make sure that metrics and alert on kasten-io will be used consistently within the company. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to Prometheus ServiceMonitor, it's easy to integrate Kasten metrics into OpenShift monitoring and ensure that metrics and alerts on kasten-io will be accessible and visible to your organization.
```
